Today I'm going to show you how to build
massive quadriceps. This is the two best
the best exercises to build quadriceps
in the game. Starting with a squat, but
it's not any old squat. I've noticed
that a lot of you guys are watching my
journey and I appreciate it if you see
my accessory exercises and now my
accessory has become the main movement
and that's the stiletto squat. What do I
love about this? It puts you in the
position to build the most amount of
quadriceps. Not all squats does that.
For example, I'm a powerlifter. I can
squat a lot of weight in my
powerlifting. My best in competition is
375 kg. Best in the gym is 400 kg. But
it's not the best quadriceps builder. So
this is something that I recommend that
all powerlifters include is some
exercise to really focus on building
quadriceps. The low bar squat is very
hip dominant. So it's not really it's
using my hip extensors and this is the
perfect way to complement that type of
movement. So for the powerlters out
there, this is for you. Stiletto squat.
Right. So what's a stiletto squat?
Stilettos are high heel shoes, right?
So, this is my high heel elevation. Look
how thick it is. It's a red bumper
plate. That's the thickest bumper plate
that I have. So, it's really, really
elevated. And that's going to allow me
to maximize quadriceps recruitment. So,
the objective of quad dominant squats is
to be deep as possible. So, I'm
maximizing knee bend. So, how do I know
it's maximal knee bend? My hamstrings
press against my calf in the bottom
position. So, that's maximal knee bend.
When I do a low bar squat, have a look.
My hamstrings don't come near my calves,
but when I do this one, it's pressed
against it. So, that's quadriceps and
less hips. I'm warming up. This is
probably my last warm-up set. I don't go
too heavy with this exercise because
it's kind of like a knee joint isolation
almost. So, whenever I do those
exercises, don't go super super heavy.
But check this out. High bar puts you in
the best position to be upright, which
is more quad dominant.
And of course, I forgot to load it
properly.
We'll do that again.
[Music]
Okay. So,
since I've watched a lot of people doing
this squat pattern, I've also started to
notice a lot of mistakes that a lot of
people are making with it. Right? So,
it's a it's what I've noticed in my
entire career. People say, "I'm doing
that exercise, therefore I must be doing
those muscles." Right? So, people say a
front squat is more quad dominant. Well,
it depends on how you do it. Low bar
squat is more hip dominant. Depends on
how you do it. So, I'm going to go
through some of the mistakes. Pretty
much just the major mistakes that I'm
seeing people make with this. Why don't
you come to the side and I'm going to
show you exactly what I'm seeing and I
want you to see the exact corrections.
So, what a lot of people do is
they get to the bottom, great, maximal
knee bend. But then to get out of it,
I'm not using quadriceps to get to this
position. The way that you can tell that
I'm not using any muscles to get out of
this position is imagine I've got the
barbell on my back. If the barbell
doesn't lift, you're not using strength
to get it out of that position. So, this
doesn't require any strength to do. So,
what you're doing is positioning your
body in a way to take quadriceps out of
it so that you can use your strong hips.
That defeats the purpose of the
exercise. Okay? So, if you look like
this when you do your stiletto squats,
you're not using quads to do that. Of
course, they're active to a degree, but
not maximally, which is what we want. So
to maximize quadriceps, be upright.
Upright at the bottom. And to get quad
to get you out of the bottom, you need
to stay upright from start to finish. So
I'm going to show you that in real time.
Set one.
[Applause]
[Music]
Don't know how that looked. I hope it
looked okay. That's what I'm fighting
for. I could make that movement stronger
if I poked my hips back. Exactly what I
said. If I did that and lifted with my
back and my hips, it would allow me to
make that movement a lot easier. That's
the cheat. So, don't do that. It's not
about cheating. This movement isn't
about a competition for who's got the
heaviest stiletto squat. The regular
squat is that. So, when I do a low bar
squat, of course, I care about the
technique, but the muscles that I use
are irrelevant to me. the amount of
weight I lift is the most important. But
normally the body just positions itself
in a way to use the strongest structures
to do that, which is hips for me. But
that's not the purpose of accessory
exercises. We do accessory exercises to
complement the main work. And the
objective of this is pure quads. So
anyway, so I'm going to do two more sets
of that. I'm leaving plenty of
repetitions in reserve. As a side story,
if you guys have been following my
journey, I tore my quadricep a few weeks
ago. I think it's 5 weeks ago now. So
not so a little bit more than a few. and
it's feeling a lot better. But what I'm
making sure with this rehab process is I
leave plenty of reps in reserve. I don't
take it to the point that's going to
hurt. I just then zero pain. So I want
to keep it that way. Something that you
can do very easily is get carried away
and just go doesn't hurt. Let's keep on
pushing it up until it does hurt, which
is a mistake that I've made in the past.
So for me, 160 stiletto squat, that's
directly targeting the muscle that I
injured for three reps with no pain is a
great indicator. Next week I'll go up
conservatively. Next week I'll do 170
for triples. The week after 180 for
triples. And by the time I'm at that
point, I'd safely say my quadriceps
rehabed. Anyway, two more sets of that.
You recording me now? Okay, let's talk.
Let's talk. Okay, so let's talk injury
rehab. Um, I'm pretty happy with this
journey. So, I injured my quad 5 weeks
ago. A lot of pain. It really frustrated
me doing 270 kg. First rep came up,
second rep just went pop. I could
definitely feel it tear. Uh, and you
know, the next day I wasn't able to do
anything. It was like 2 or 3 days later
I was able to do kind of like assisted
lessened body weight squats and empty
leg presses. So that's what I do if it's
like a partial strain or a tear type of
thing on a muscle. Not a complete
rupture. And remember, I'm not a
physiootherapist. This is not medical
advice. This is just what I've learned
from my physiootherapist and my recovery
and my history. If it's a partial tear
at your earliest convenience, you want
to start rehabilitating it by directly
training it, putting blood into the
area. And the best exercise to put blood
into the area is the exact exercise that
you use to injure yourself in the first
place, but just done with great
technique and the appropriate loads that
it doesn't actually hurt you. So to cut
a long story short, for me to be able to
do 160 kg stiletto squats, I'm really
happy with that. A lot of the times when
people injure themselves, and I'm
talking to you. If you've injured
yourself at home, you'll feel this. You
kind of go into depression, right? Am I
right? You know I am because you think,
"Damn, I've just worked so hard to get
to this point and now I can't do it
anymore. What am I going to do?" I'll
tell you, this is me 20s something years
of experience. I've injured myself
before and I've done that. I've done the
depression thing and now I realize it's
okay. It's a process. It takes a little
bit of time, you know, a couple of weeks
off, but you will be back. So for me,
like 160 for three isn't my best. I
think my best was 200 for five, which
was a few weeks ago. And I'm pretty sure
that I'll be able to get there really
quickly. So instead of doing nothing and
just waiting for the pain to go and then
coming back and getting frustrated and
all those things, slowly slowly start
reintroducing direct work into the exact
muscle that you injured as long as
there's no pain during that process. And
you'll gradually build up and then all
of a sudden it's just like it's just
fixed. So for me um there was small
pain. I was doing 50 kg was my first
squats back then 80 kg then 100 kg and
it was like oh this is going to be so
long. Now all of a sudden 160 on a very
very demanding quadricep focus exercise
and no pain but I'd like to keep it that
way. I'm happy that there's no pain. If
I did more reps which I could have maybe
that would have started aggravating. No
need. Leave room to be able to go
forward. Anyway, so that's set number
one. I'm going to do two more sets of
this. Uh why don't you watch it from
another view so you know that my side
view looked however it looked. The focus
is to be upright and press the
hamstrings on the calf. Why don't you
watch it from another angle so that you
too can use this movement.
[Applause]
very comfortable. Again, I'm resting
about 5 minutes because I'm not maxing
out. If you've been following me for
long enough, you know when I do go
really, really heavy, I like to rest
about 8 minutes. 5 minutes in between.
So, this is stiletto squats, the first
exercise. Remember what my promise was
at the start of the video? I'm going to
show you the two best quadriceps
exercises that you can do. Of course,
that's my opinion and I have a bias
towards squatting and it's my channel.
So, I can tell you what my favorite
exercises are, but you know, let's be
real. Let's be unbiased now. I love a
high bar stiletto squat. Other
alternatives if the focus is purely quad
growth and not strength, hack squats,
even leg press if you perform it in a
specific way where you're able to get
that same position which is hamstring
press against the calf in the bottom
position pushing through the balls of
the feet. Either of those maximal knee
bend hamstring on calf, any of those. My
favorite squat because those leg presses
and hack squats have much less carryover
towards an actual squat because you're
not strengthening your core. So if your
goal is a little bit of strength as
well, whether it's you want to be good
at squatting or you play a sport like
rugby or martial arts and you want to
have a strong body, squats with an
actual barbell free weight are going to
have a much better carryover to your
whole body strength than those machine
exercises. So these days a lot of people
are now saying machines are better than
free weights and they're not adding
context. But the context to that
statement is if your goal is purely to
build muscle and you have zero regard
for functionality. So what is
functionality? your ability for that
strength work in the gym to carry over
to what you're doing in your sport,
which I'll always favor performance. I
want to be useful if anyone says that
squats are bad for mus building muscle.
They just don't know how to position
themselves correctly to build quadriceps
and now you guys do. So anyway, I'm
going to do one more set and then I'm
going to go to my second best exercise.
I don't want to call it second best. I
don't want to prioritize. It is a must
actually. It is a must to pair this
exercise with your squats if your goal
is complete quadriceps development. Let
me explain why. Quadriceps. How many
muscles in quadriceps? I'll give you a
clue. What does quad mean? Of course, it
means four. So, there's four heads of
the quadriceps. Three of them being
vasis mediialis, vasis lateralis, and
vasis intermedius. Vasis vasis vasis.
All they do is cross the knee joint and
all they do is extend the knee. But then
the fourth muscle is called the rectus
forous which crosses the knee and it
crosses the hip. It flexes the hip and
extends the knee. Now when I squat they
are conflicting actions. Knee extension,
hip flexion. But I'm doing knee
extension, hip extension, right? So when
I come down in a squat, when I bend my
knee, it stretches the quad at my knee,
but I also bend at my hip. So it
shortens it at my hip. So those are
conflicting actions. And then when I
stand out of the hole, I'm shortening it
at my knee when I contract it, but then
I'm lengthening it at my hip when I
stand straight. So the length of the
rectus forous doesn't change. It stays
the same length. Which is why if you're
trying to build quadriceps, and all you
do is compound movements, so all the
squat patterns, lunges and squat
patterns, whether it's with a leg press,
hack squat, or a barbell, you are
neglecting that fourth head of the
quadriceps, which is the rectus forous.
The best way to target the barticular
muscle. So bioticular means it crosses
two joints the best way to target it is
to isolate it. Fix the hip joint and use
the secondary action which is knee joint
extension. So therefore if you want
complete quadriceps development do your
favorite quad exercise. For me it's a
stiletto squat. For you it could be a
hack squat or a leg press. Secondary
exercise add leg extension. And that's
the magic. Two exercises. Nothing fancy.
Two exercises. Who' have thought?
Do you have any magic pills in the leg
extension? I think
there's a few magic pills and we're
going to get there. You know, you want
everything at once, musty, don't you?
You're like a dopamine addict. Like,
give me more. Give me more. I got to
save a little bit. You know what I mean?
I got to save a little bit for when we
get there. I'm going to show you a few
little tweaks that you can do on the leg
extension. But we'll get there in a
moment. I've got one more set to do and
I got to make that perfect 3x3 160
slowto squat. Let's get it.
And that is a stiletto. squat.
You go.
Yes, bro.
Why the red plate? Does it have like
things you try to stand on?
Really great question, actually. And I
do have things I can stand on. So, a lot
of people do the ramps, and I do like
the ramp. But for me, there's one fault
with that. I've got this. Here's the
problem with wearing with using this for
your heel elevation. It only points in
one direction, which is straight
forward. So, if I want to do this squat,
I've got to point my knees forward,
which is great. But for me, to achieve
maximal depth, I like to point my knees
outwards slightly. When I point my knees
outwards slightly, I need to point my
feet outward slightly. And have a look
at my ankles when I do that.
They cave in. So when I use the plate,
it allows me to position my feet in the
exact direction that I want my knees to
go in. And it's a much more comfortable
position for me. So for me, not saying
the slant's bad, but if you're going to
use a board that only gives you one
direction, which is straight forward,
you need for your knees to point
straight forward. And when you want to
achieve full depth in a squat, opening
the hips. So this is called hip joint
flexion, right? So we get certain amount
of degrees of hip joint flexion, but if
we open our hips or abduct slightly, we
get a few more degrees of hip joint
flexion. So flexion and abduction is
going to allow most people, not
everyone, but most people to achieve the
maximal range of motion. And the best
way to do that is actually with a plate
so you can point your no your toes in
the same direction that your knees want
to go. That was a good question. Okay,
exercise two. This is the magic leg
extension. Not much to it except for one
little trick. We're fixing our hips. So
that means that the rectus forous isn't
doing anything to the hip joint and the
only joint that's working is our knee
joint. So that doesn't just isolate
rectus forous, it actually hits all four
heads of the quadriceps. So sometimes
people get carried away and they say
this is a rectus forous exercise. It is,
but it's all heads of the quadriceps
exercise. But there's one way that you
can pimp this exercise and that is to
slightly lean back. What that does is it
increases the stretch on that muscle. So
when you're upright, it kind of shortens
that rectus for us. But when we're
leaning back, it creates more of a
stretch position. I can lean back by
arching my back or I can lean back by
stretching the pelvis. So what I think
about doing is pissing up a wall as
well. Right? So this is where there's a
slight advantage of putting the rectus
forous in a stretch position before you
do before you do the leg extension. So
I'm going to do three sets of 8 to 12.
Go a little bit heavier. That was my
first steel set. And then that is my
complete quadriceps day. That's all you
need. Of course, that's not all you need
for all leg muscles. We still got
hamstrings, glutes. Okay, so that's just
quadriceps. So, we'll cover that on
another day. Until then, happy quad
building everybody. Now you know how to
build quads. It's not just squats. It's
how you perform the squats. And it's not
just one favorite exercise. Pair it with
leg extensions and you are good to go.
Hope you enjoyed that session and I'll
see you guys next time.
Take this one to failure. By the way,
that's the goal. Not the squats. So,
that's the difference between should you
train to fail or not. It depends on the
exercise. Squats,
it's going to ruin your technique. But
if I do this to failure, my technique
stays the same.
[Music]
No, that wasn't complete failure. I
could have done more, you know. I could
have done more, but I'll do more on the
next sets.
Okay.